---
title: "ACTS as a Service"
collection: talks
type: Talk
conference: 22nd International Workshop on Advanced Computing and Analysis Techniques in Physics Research (ACAT 2024)
permalink: /talks/2024-03-14
venue: Stony Brook University
date: 2024-03-14
modified: 2024-04-10
location: Long Island, NY, USA
link: https://indico.cern.ch/event/1330797/contributions/5796611/
prensentor: Dr. Yuan-Tang Chou
---

## Description
Recent advancements in track finding within the challenging environments expected in the High-Luminosity Large Hadron Collider (HL-LHC) have showcased the potential of Graph Neural Network (GNN)-based algorithms. These algorithms exhibit high track efficiency and reasonable resolutions, yet their computational burden on CPUs hinders real-time processing, necessitating the integration of accelerators like GPUs. However, the substantial size of the involved graphs, with approximately 300k nodes and 1M edges, demands significant GPU memory, posing a challenge for facilities lacking high-end GPUs such as NVIDIA A100s or V100s. These computing challenges must be addressed to deploy GNN-based track finding or any algorithm that requires coprocessors, into production.

To overcome these challenges, we propose the as-a-service approach to deploy the GNN-based track-finding algorithm in the cloud or high-performance computing centers such as the NERSC Perlmutter system with over 7000 A100 GPUs. In addressing this, we have developed a tracking-as-a-service prototype within A Common Tracking Software (ACTS), an experiment-independent toolkit for charged particle track reconstruction.

The GNN-based track finding is implemented as a service within ACTS, showcasing its versatility as a demonstrator. Moreover, this approach is algorithm-agnostic, allowing the incorporation of other algorithms as new backends through interactions with the client interface implemented in ACTS.

In this contribution, we present the implementation of the GNN-based track-finding workflow as a service using the Nvidia Triton Inference Server within ACTS. The GNN pipeline comprises three distinct deep-learning models and two CUDA-based algorithms, enabling full tracking reconstruction within ACTS. We explore different server configurations to assess track-finding throughput and GPU utilization, exploring the scalability of the inference server across the NERSC Perlmutter supercomputer and cloud resources such as AWS and Google Cloud.

## Significance
This contribution describes the work that uses the as-a-service computing model to accelerate track finding in dense environments for HL-LHC. The as-a-service method provides more flexibility to scale and balance computing resources using coprocessors for state-of-art tracking reconstruction.

Furthermore, this approach is independent of the underlying tracking algorithm. The GNN-based tracking finding is implemented in ACTS to provide the first demonstrator for such an approach to showcase the potential and explore scalability using supercomputers
